Part 1. Audacity

1st effect: High pass filter (500hz cutoff & 6db rolloff)
	- This filter essentially is cutting out any frequencies below and at the 500hz
	mark by rolling off those frequencies by 6db per octave. The rolloff is really
	how steep you want to reduce those frequencies. What you get by applying this
	filter is something that's similar to the original file but with a noticeable 
	reduction of lower frequencies. If the rolloff was greater, the reduction would
	be greater.
	
2nd effect: The speed increased by 20%
	- This effect increases the speed of the file by 20%. The reason why the pitch
	is also increased is because there is effectively less time to play the same
	number of samples. This means that the frequency increases and thus the pitch 
	is increased.
	
3rd effect: Decreased tempo by 20%
	- This effect essentially decreases the rate at which the file is played
	(decreasing the bpm). When the effect is combined with the high pass filter
	and speed increase at 20%, the pitch remains the same. One possible explanation
	would be that the file is essentially the file with the first two effects applied
	but played slower.
	
4th effect: Echo
	- This effect adds an echo-like effect by playing the same source offset by a
	specified delay. The delay I added in my processed source was 0.25 seconds. 
	
5th effect: Tremolo
	- I added the tremolo effect with the default Audacity settings. The effect
	added some alternation of amplitude which made it sound like the source was
	increasing in volume then decreasing the increasing. 
	

Part 2 - Square Wave Generation

	-The fundamental wave of a square wave is the 1st harmonic sine wave. This wave
	looks similar to a square wave but isn't an accurate match. If we look at the
	third harmonic and sum the third to the first harmonic we get something similar 
	to a square wave. By adding every odd harmonic we achieve greater accuracy. 
	The general equation is as follows y = sin(x) + sin(3*x)/3 + sin(5*x)/5
	sin(7*x)/7. In my implementation the fundamental frequency would be 1/2*PI. My square
	wave has 9 harmonics with a fundamental wave at 100hz. Each harmonic has an odd
	harmonic frequency (100, 300, 500, 700, 900, 1100, 1300, 1500, 1700).
	
Part 3 - JavOICe

 - My fundamental frequency was set at 500hz. This meant that the second harmonic, third,
 and so on were multiples of 500. What I did was I filled in these multiples so that we
 hear a continuous tone of these harmonics. Near the 0.5s mark, I eliminated the fundamental
 and the second harmonic to see if the fundamental somewhat persisted. Observing this 
 behavior, it did seem to persist even when the fundamental was eliminated in the second
 half.
 
 
Part 4 - Stomper
- I chose the Sy-sub.stu sample file. It uses two oscillators and one filter. The first
oscillator seems to be a square wave at a constant 65hz. The second oscillator seems to be
a saw wave at a constant 130hz. The filter applies a sweep from 10000hz to 0hz. So the
wave has an initial cutoff of 10000hz and has a nice fade to 0hz.

