CS1331 Syllabus Spring 2010
Course Objectives
• Introduction to object-oriented programming through the use of the Java language.
• Experience with algorithms and GUI programming.
• Introduction to data structures both built-in and programmer-written in Java.
Lecturers
Monica Sweat CCB 131 sweat@cc.gatech.edu
and
Olufisayo Omojokun CCB 113 omojokun@cc.gatech.edu
Head TA
Aaron Clarke CCB 130 aclarke3@mail.gatech.edu
Other TAs and Office Hours/Lab Location
Other TAs & Hours TBA
All CS1331 office hours & lab are held in CCB 130
Required Course Textbook
Lewis & Loftus, "Java Software Solutions" 6th edition. Addison Wesley. ISBN:978-0-321-53205-3.
Software is free and available online.
Grading Policy
20% Programming Homework
55% Exams
25% Final (cumulative)
In addition to meeting these cutoffs, you must also have a passing average on the exams and final to pass
the course. There is no curve and no rounding with the letter grade cutoffs listed above!
Academic Integrity & Collaboration Policy
We expect academic honor and integrity from students. You are to be aware of and follow the academic
honor code of Georgia Tech: www.deanofstudents.gatech.edu/osi/plugins/content/index.php
Your work in this class is to be your own. Significant coding will be required on the exams, and the
homework is intended to help prepare you.
Due Dates, Late Work, and Missed Work:
Programming homework turn-in is via T-Square. Each assignment is due before 8 pm on the due date. A
grace period until 2 a.m. is given during which your assignment will be marked "late" on T-Square, but will
not be docked points. After the grace period, T-Square will not accept your submission, and you will
A >= 90.00
B >= 80.00 and < 90.00
C >= 70.00 and < 80.00
D >= 60.00 and < 70.00
F < 60.00
receive a 0 if you have not submitted your HW solution. No exceptions. It is your responsibility to make
sure you completely and successfully submit the proper files for your assignments turned in to T-Square.
"Safe submission" practices will be discussed in your first assignment.
Exam Policy:
There are no generally available makeup exams. Makeup exams will only be considered under special
circumstances such as serious illness, hospitalization, death in the family, judicial procedures, military
service, or official school functions. Documentation must be provided on letterhead with the signature of a
physician, supervisor, or other appropriate official. The decision is at the sole discretion of your instructor.
Events such as errands, work conflicts, sleeping through your alarm, alarm malfunction, not being aware of
the exam are definitely not valid excuses. You must contact us in advance for your situation to be
considered.
Email Policy
You must conduct all official email correspondence for this course using your official GT email account.
This is to protect your privacy. Email from outside sources such as gmail, hotmail, yahoo, and other
personal accounts will be ignored.
Be sure to use an informative email subject that includes CS1331 in the subject of the email! For example,
Subject: CS1331 exam 2 question. Definitely do not email saying "I'm in your CS class..." as both
instructors teach numerous CS courses.
Class & Workshop Attendance
Lecture and workshop/recitation attendance is required and assumed.
Grade Contest
To contest any grade, you must submit an official regrade form to the Head TA, Aaron Clarke, within one
week of the assignment's original return date. The original return date is when the exam was first made
available for students to pick up or the grade was posted on T-Square in the case of homework assignments.
This regrade policy applies to ALL grades.
Course Expectations
1. Lecture and workshop attendance is required.
2. Keep up with the reading.
3. Try the code we do in class. Every bit of practice helps!
4. Do your own homework and experiment with examples from class! Learning to program is like learning
a sport. It takes actual practice and time to get comfortable with programming. The assignments that are
given are opportunities to learn the material that you will be responsible for on exams.
5. Exercise academic integrity and follow the collaboration policy outlined above.
6. Be prepared when you go to get help from a TA or your instructor. Bring your work with you.
7. Take initiative. Begin your assignments early and if you think you need help, come prepared. Use the
resources that are provided for you, and be determined to succeed from the start.